# ExpandingCivilization
A project that simulates the expansion of a space faring civilization under certain premises.


As an astronomy enthusiast and science-fiction writer for years, I have often been perplexed by the realization that humanity, being a civilization that inhabits just a single planet, has such a limited perspective. Night after night, as I gaze up at the stars, I find myself pondering the vastness of our universe and our galaxy, much of which we understand only through theory. This leads me to wonder about the possibilities that could unfold if we were to embark on journeys to distant stars. If we develop the technology for space travel and colonizing planets from other star systems, how fast can we expand in terms of the number of planets we inhabit?
Hence, this investigation aims to offer insight into those questions by establishing hypotheticals, representing components for the rate propagation such as the possibility of a colonizable world in a neighboring star system and the probabilities of the civilization investigating each star system, detailed later in Preestablished Parameters. In essence, this study follows a simple premise that the civilization surveys a new star system once every year in search of a habitable planet, optimizes their search based on the limited information they are granted, and colonizes every world habitable to them. From the investigation, an equation relating the number of planets inhabited by the civilization and the number of years passing should be outputted.
The parameters implemented in the investigation are sometimes modifications or simplifications of existing astrophysical relations, for instance, the estimation of the range for the Goldilocks Zone (habitable zone) in terms of the Mass of the home star. Otherwise, in scenarios where no applicable relationships exist, a hypothetical equation is formulated to logically connect the variables, for instance, a probability distribution of masses of the stars.
Although the results from this investigation cannot serve as a realistic estimation of a galactic civilization’s expansion due to the numerous unrealistic scenarios presupposed, its primary implication lies within the simulation and the video game industry. This study offers an alternative approach for map generation and AI control in space-based strategy games, such as Stellaris, based on the outcomes of the simulation.
